HR 6-REMOTE WORK POLICY 
Updated: 27/04/2023 
Author: Theodoros Katsikis 
Approval: Sara Fideli 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Directorate - General of Human Resources 
REMOTE WORK POLICY 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES – REMOTE WORK POLICY 
2 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
1. PURPOSE ................................................................................................................ 3 
2. SCOPE ..................................................................................................................... 3 
3. RESPONSIBILITY .................................................................................................... 3 
4. DESCRIPTION ......................................................................................................... 4 
Α. Voluntary Remote Working ................................................................................................. 4 
Β. Transparency and Equal Rights ........................................................................................... 5 
C. Jobs Suitable for Remote Working ...................................................................................... 5 
D. Remote Working Requirements........................................................................................... 5 
E. Place of Work, Secrecy and Confidentiality ......................................................................... 6 
F. Safety and Health .................................................................................................................. 7 
G. Application and Approvals Flow ............................................................................................ 7 
H. Working hours – Availability ................................................................................................. 8 
I. Rights and Obligations – Right to Disconnect ........................................................................ 8 
J. Remote working duration ...................................................................................................... 8 
K. IT Infrastructure ................................................................................................................... 9 
L. Expenses ............................................................................................................................... 9 
M. Compliance with current policies .......................................................................................... 9 
N. Ensuring Business Continuity ................................................................................................ 9 
O. Similar application to non-salaried employees .....................................................................10 
 
 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES – REMOTE WORK POLICY 
3 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES 
 
 
 
HR 6 REMOTE WORK POLICY 
 
1. PURPOSE 
 
The purpose of the Policy is to define the remote working framework for MYTILINEOS, enabling 
employees to apply, on a voluntary basis, for remote working at agreed intervals approved by the 
company, in accordance with the provisions of Law 4808/2021. 
 
Working remotely, where this is feasible on a role-by-role basis, can improve employee productivity and 
effectiveness, reduce the environmental footprint of office operations and employee commuting to/from 
work, attract and retain Human Resources, and contribute to work-life balance. 
 
 
2. SCOPE 
 
The Remote Work Policy applies to employees of MYTILINEOS and its subsidiaries in Greece, whose work 
can be provided either entirely or partially remotely in an effective manner. If the individual employment 
contract stipulates otherwise than the current Policy, the individual contract, as in force, shall prevail. 
 
The main criterion for an employee's eligibility for remote work is that the nature and type of work should 
not adversely affect the employee's productivity and efficiency. 
 
 
3. RESPONSIBILITY 
 
Compliance with and updating of the Policy is the responsibility of the Directorate General for Human 
Resources. 
 
The Chief People Officer is the process owner. The table below shows the key roles of all stakeholders 
involved in the process as well as their main responsibilities: 
 
 
 
KEY PROCESS ROLES 
Role Description Main Responsibilities 
Chief Executive 
Director(s) & Chief 
Officers 
Refers to the Chief Executive 
Director of the respective 
Business Segments, as well 
as the Chief Officer of the 
respective Division of the 
Central Functions, as 
depicted in the organization 
chart of the organization. 
The Chief Executive Director of each Business 
Sector, and the Chief Officer of each Central 
Functions Division (hereinafter jointly referred 
to as the "Head"), gives the final approval for 
the percentage of employees who may be 
working remotely. In addition, he/she has 
approved the roles that can work remotely. 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES – REMOTE WORK POLICY 
4 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES 
 
 
 
 
KEY PROCESS ROLES 
Role Description Main Responsibilities 
Chief People 
Officer 
Refers to the Chief People 
Officer, as reflected in the 
organisational chart of the 
organisation. 
The Chief People Officer is responsible for 
changing/amending the current Policy and 
advising the other Heads on implementation of 
this Policy. 
Directors Refers to the Director of the 
respective Business Segment 
or Central Functions, as 
reflected in the 
organisational chart of the 
organisation. 
Each Director is responsible for determining 
which roles under their responsibility can work 
remotely, ensuring the required productivity 
and effectiveness. He/she approves the remote 
working schedule for his/her Division. 
HRBPs Refers to HR Business 
Partners, as reflected in the 
organisational chart of the 
organisation. 
HRBPs act as business advisors in relation to 
the roles that can work remotely, their 
percentage, as well as the implementation of 
the Policy and of the applicable relevant 
Legislation. 
HR Operations This refers to the responsible 
personnel in the Human 
Resources Operations 
Division, as reflected in the 
organisational chart of the 
organisation. 
The competent employees are responsible for 
collecting and maintaining the entire record of 
employees working remotely. They ensure that 
the necessary actions are taken based on the 
applicable Legislation and requirements of 
Public Authorities. They offer guidance and 
advice to HRBPs regarding observance of the 
Policy and the requirements of Labour Law. 
 
 
 
4. DESCRIPTION 
 
This section describes in detail the various steps for proper implementation of the Policy.  
 
 
Α. Voluntary Remote Working 
 
Remote working is voluntary for the employee in the sense that it can be applied following an agreement 
between the employee and the employer upon hiring or at a later date. To apply remote working, the 
employee must have signed a relevant individual agreement, explicitly specifying the remote worki ng 
terms. 
 
By way of exception, in the case of a documented health risk to the employee, as well as in the case of 
employees with permanent or temporary health problems, if the nature of their duties makes it possible 
to perform them through remote working and if the health risk can be mitigated or avoided with remote 
working, the employer must accept the relevant request of the employee always with the consent of the 
Occupational Physician, unless there is a special and important reason for its rejection, which it must set 
out and justify in writing to the employee. 
 
In case of public health risk and emergency conditions and needs, the Company may unilaterally 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES – REMOTE WORK POLICY 
5 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES 
 
 
implement a remote working system for the time required until the termination of these conditions. 
 
Β. Transparency and Equal Rights 
 
The employer must inform the employee, in a transparent manner, not only of the conditions of 
performance, but also of the benefits and risks of remote working and, in addition, ensure that the 
personal data processed are limited to what is necessary for the purpose of processing and are kept for 
the time necessary to achieve this purpose. 
 
In any case, organizing remote working for any reason must not lead to inequalities and discrimination 
(salary, career adv ancement opportunities, participation in vocational training programs) and affect 
employees' labour, insurance and social rights, nor lead to automated individual decision -making, 
including profiling of remote workers. 
 
 
C. Jobs Suitable for Remote Working 
 
Each job has different requirements in terms of collaborations, customer needs and results. These 
differences are key when deciding whether a role can be performed remotely.  
 
At the beginning of each calendar month, or at shorter intervals in cases of exceptional circumstances 
and needs, the Head, taking into account the operational needs and the proper operation of their Division, 
as well as the nature of the employees' duties which may be carried out by remote working, de cides 
which positions will be eligible, as well as any other details for its implementation.  
 
When assessing whether a particular position is suitable for remote working, the Head will consider many 
factors, including, but not limited to: 
 
• Whether the nature of the work to be performed remotely is operationally feasible 
• Whether the overall quantity and quality of work performed can be maintained at the remote 
location 
• If the position is managerial, whether an Executive in the position has the tools and resources 
to effectively manage direct reports remotely 
• Whether the collaboration required by the position is easily achieved through video conferencing 
or other remote communication technologies 
 
D. Remote Working Requirements 
For an employee to make use of remote working, the following must cumulatively apply: 
 
- Both parties (employee and employer) should agree. 
 
- The employee should be able to perform as effectively as with in-office work. 
 
- The employee should ensure the suitability of the location where he/s he will provide remote work 
from. Specifically, the location should have a stable and uninterrupted Internet network and 
electricity, the desk and chairs should be suitable for office work and be ergonomic. In general, the 
space should be safe for office work, and it is the employee's responsibility to ensure that the above 
requirements are met. 
 
- The employee should ensure the security of information he/she handles and that such information 
is not accessible to third parties who may be at the location. Spec ial attention should be paid to 
verbal communication either through a computer, e.g., through teams or other such means, or by 
telephone, as well as to the use of the computer by unauthorized persons. 
 
- The employee using Internet and Email services provided by MYTILINEOS, must comply with the 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES – REMOTE WORK POLICY 
6 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES 
 
 
Internet and E -mail Use Policy. Any deviation f rom the requirements of MYTILINEOS policies, 
procedures and instructions is strictly prohibited. Exceptions must have a valid business reason 
and require prior approval by the Head of IT Infrastructure. 
 
- The employee is required to observe all office security practices when working outside MYTILINEOS 
offices to ensure the integrity and secrecy of its proprietary and sensitive information.  
 
- The employee must ensure that the selected location meets the required specifications enabling 
the smooth and effective performance of his/her duties through remote working and complies with 
the general rules of prevention, health and safety. 
 
- The employee should refrain from forwarding emails to his/her personal email address, especially 
when the message content is not encrypted. 
 
- The employee should avoid the physical transfer or printing of personal data resulting from 
department/corporate documents (e.g. company contracts, retail customer contracts, etc.) to the 
employee's home or to a place/space other than the workplace, to ensure that personal data cannot 
be leaked to unauthorised third parties. 
 
- Additional requirements may exist, depending on the nature of the work and t he equipment 
required to perform the work. 
 
 
E. Place of Work, Secrecy and Confidentiality 
 
The employee’s residence address as declared to Human Resources is the place where remote working 
is deemed to be provided from. If the primary remote work location differs from the employee's primary 
or secondary residence address on record, the employee should follow the approval flow as described in 
subsection G. 
 
It is the employee's obligation to en sure that alternative and occasional work locations are suitable to 
ensure the proper provision of the work on his/her part, as well as the integrity and secrecy of proprietary 
and sensitive information. The employee must observe and comply with MYTILINEOS  policies and 
procedures just like during in-office work, as described in subsection M. 
 
Locations that are open to the public, such as cafés, restaurants, and airports, are not suitable alternative 
work locations when handling confidential information. Similarly, locations open to the public are not 
suitable for group meetings to perform tasks in which sensitive information will be displayed on devices, 
physically distributed, or orally discussed. Employees must take all necessary measures to ensure that 
the alternative workplace meets all conditions for appropriate data security and confidentiality.  
 
Remote workers agree to conduct all business meetings at locations that ensure t he confidentiality of 
company information/data. 
 
Employees must have secure network connectivity at all work locations. Employees are expected to 
understand the dangers of unsecured Wi-Fi networks and exercise increased caution when connecting to 
public Wi-Fi access points. 
 
Company information and data must always be protected in a manner proportionate to their sensitivity 
and criticality and in compliance with applicable policies and procedures.  
 
Devices provided by MYTILINEOS, including but not limited to computers, telephones, and cloud services, 
must be used solely by the remote worker. Family members, friends and any third parties are not allowed 
to use MYTILINEOS devices. Remote workers must never lend their laptop, credentials for MYTILINEOS 
systems or cloud -based services, or any other computer that stores information about the business 
activities of MYTILINEOS to others. 
 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES – REMOTE WORK POLICY 
7 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES 
 
 
When conducting teleconferences, taking into account the relevant prohibitions and restrictions provided 
by law (Article 6 par. 6 of Law 4807/2021) for the provision of remote working, the remote worker shall 
be entitled, pursuant to the principle of data minimization, to activate the capability of the platform used 
(e.g. Teams) to participate using a microphone only, and not have the camera on all the time, especially 
when there are reasons that require it (e.g. protection of minors). In addition, it is recommended that 
the remote worker select features of the platform used that allow hiding the background by blur ring or 
by adding an image (virtual background) to avoid the risk of revealing personal information that may 
arise from viewing. 
 
Regarding videoconference recording, it is permitted only during lawful professional practice for the 
purpose of providing evi dence of a commercial transaction or other communication of a professional 
nature, provided that both parties, after prior notification of the purpose of the recording, offer their 
consent. In any case, to perform such processing, the employer shall, prior  to processing, take 
appropriate measures to protect personal data and, where necessary, carry out an impact assessment. 
An act of the Data Protection Authority determines how parties are informed and offer their consent, and 
how and for how long recorded conversations and the relevant data are kept. 
 
 
F. Safety and Health 
 
The employee must ensure that the selected location meets the minimum required specifications 
enabling the smooth and effective performance of his/her duties through remote working and complies 
with the general rules of prevention, health and safety. It is presumed that when working remotely the 
remote worker complies with all health and safety rules and that the remote working location meets the 
above specifications, as well as the requirements of subsection D. 
 
In the event of an injury or any other incident related to the health and safety of the employee during 
work from home, the remote worker must immediately (or as soon as circumstances permit) report it to 
his/her line manager or to Human Resources 
 
 
G. Application and Approvals Flow 
 
An employee who wishes to work remotely, submits a written request to his/her line manager at least 
one (1) week before the start of remote working. The employee's request shall specify a) the number of 
remote working days, which should not exceed two (2) days per week and b) the address of the location 
where remote working will be provided from, which may not differ from the employee's primary or 
secondary residence already declared and included in the data kept by the Human Resources Operations 
Division. By way of exception, in the event of a health risk to the employee, as well as in the case of 
employees with permanent or temporary health problems, the provisions of subsection A shall apply. 
 
Each Division Head, considering the operational needs, the need for the proper operations of the relevant 
function, and the employee’s responsibilities, shall notify the employee, in writing or by electronic means, 
of his/her decision regarding the request within two (2) days from submission. 
 
Before approving an employee's application, managers should ensure that the specific roles can perform 
under remote working without the employee's performance falling short of in -office work. In addition, 
they should ensure that approvals are given considering the equal treatment of employees by avoiding 
discriminatory decisions (whether favourable or unfavourable) towards specific workers.  
 
Managers shall communicate the decisions on remote working requests to the Head and the respective 
HR Business Partners, as well as to the Human Resources Operations Division, no later than the last day 
of each current week. The Human Resources Operations Division is responsible for maintaining the 
overall remote working record, coordinating and monitoring the process, and implementing actions 
required by Labour Law. 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES – REMOTE WORK POLICY 
8 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES 
 
 
 
The maximum percentage of employees per General Division of the Company that may be employed 
simultaneously through remote working may not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of all the employees 
of that General Division who are eligible for remote working by the nature of their duties. 
 
 
H. Working hours – Availability 
Working hours remain the same as with in -office work. During working hours, the employee should be 
available and respond immediately to the work needs that arise. Specifically:  
 
- Employees must be able to perform the same tasks, assignments, and other work obligations in 
their home office as they do when they work on MYTILINEOS premises. 
 
- Employees are expected to be available to their supervisors, managers and colleagues during the 
agreed working hours and make their availability clear from their instant messaging work status 
(e.g.: Microsoft Teams). 
 
- Employees should ensure that they can be reached by phone, instant messaging (e.g.: Microsoft 
Teams) or other communication tools used in the employee’s department. 
 
- MYTILINEOS expects the same level of professionalism and responsiveness from its remote workers 
as it does from employees working on the Company's premises. 
 
- Employees must be available to attend scheduled meetings and participate in other required office 
activities depending on the needs of the respective Central Services or BU activity.  
 
- Overtime must be pre-approved in writing by the employee's manager. Deviations from the agreed 
timetable must be approved in advance by the Head. The policy of MYTILINEOS will be observed 
for all absences. 
 
 
I. Rights and Obligations – Right to Disconnect 
 
Remote workers enjoy the same rights and obligations as employees performing their duties in-office at 
the organisation’s premises, and are not excluded from the company ’s procedures such as promotions, 
raises, career advancement opportunities, participation in vocational training programs, etc.  
 
A remote working employee has the right to disconnect, which consists of his/her right to completely 
abstain from providing his/her work and not to communicate digitally and not to respond to phone calls, 
emails, or any form of communication outside working hours and during his/her legal leaves of absence. 
 
Within the framework of its manageria l prerogative, the employer may take the necessary measures 
related to checking the remote worker’s work performance in a way that respects his/her privacy and 
fundamental rights and is in line with the protection of personal data. The use of a webcam or a keystroke 
recorder to check the employee’s performance is prohibited. Furthermore, monitoring outgoing Internet 
traffic for the above purposes, using appropriate software ( e.g., TLS appliance), is not justified, when 
they can be achieved by softer preventive means. 
 
 
J. Remote working duration 
 
Upon approval of the application, the employee is considered to be  working remotely and the employee 
can work from the declared remote working location in the manner agreed on a case -by-case basis 
between the employee and his/her respective Line Manager and General Manager. 
 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES – REMOTE WORK POLICY 
9 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES 
 
 
 
K. IT Infrastructure 
 
The use of devices ( e.g., laptops) that are not certified equipment of MYTILINEOS for the performance 
of the remote workers' duties during remote working is expressly prohibited. It is also prohibited to carry 
other IT equipment from the office to the remote working location ( e.g., monitors, docking station, 
printers, etc.). 
 
 
L. Expenses 
 
The Company shall pay an amount to cover the cost of remote working and use of the remote worker's 
home space, only for remote working days and in proportion to the percentage of remote working  in 
relation to the total working time, the amount of which may not be less than the minimum statutory 
amount applicable each time, as defined by the relevant legal or regulatory provisions. Payment shall be 
made each month and relate to the month preceding the payment. 
 
The Company will in any case bear the cost caused to the employee by this form of work and in particular 
the cost of equipment, unless it is agreed to use the employee's equipment, telecommunications, 
equipment maintenance and fault repair. 
 
Meanwhile, the Company is obliged to provide the employee with technical support for provision of 
his/her work and undertakes to reimburse any repair costs of the devices used for work or to replace 
them in case of fault. This obligation relates to devic es owned by MYTILINEOS and have been given to 
the employee for the performance of his/her duties. 
 
 
M. Compliance with current policies 
 
It is of utmost importance that the employee observes and complies with MYTILINEOS policies and 
procedures just like during in-office work. 
 
Examples of policies that all employees must adhere to are: 
 
• Code of Business Conduct 
• MYTILINEOS Employment Rules 
• Human Rights Policy 
• Internet and E-mail Use Policy (PLC.IT.SEC.04) 
• Information Security Strategy, General Principles and Governance Policy 
(PLC.IT.SEC.01) 
• Acceptable Use of Information Systems and Code of Conduct (PLC.IT.SEC.03) 
• Leave of Absence Planning and Granting Procedure 
• Personal Data Protection Policy 
 
An employee should be able to demonstrate the required flexibility in any change of the remote working 
schedule and be prepared to immediately return to his/her physical workplace, when and if requested 
by his/her line manager. 
 
 
N. Ensuring Business Continuity 
 
Remote workers must notify their line m anager in a timely manner of situations that affect their ability 
to complete their tasks. 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES – REMOTE WORK POLICY 
10 
DIRECTORATE - GENERAL OF HUMAN RESOURCES 
 
 
 
A remote worker should have identified alternative appropriate working arrangements in situations that 
may affect the employee and therefore business continuity, in cluding, but not limited to, Internet and 
power outages. 
 
 
O. Similar application to non-salaried employees 
 
As to the way the remote working framework is organised, the above policy also applies mutatis mutandis 
to consultants, associates and other profes sionals who offer services to the company under a works 
contract or independent services contract or other legal relationship, if and to the extent that they are 
consistent with the nature of their contractual relationship. 
